Console Data Credit Doc (#132)
helium/docs: docs/use-the-network/console/data-credits.mdx

---
id: data-credits
hide_title: true
sidebar_label: Data Credits
slug: /use-the-network/console/data-credits
---

# Data Credits

> Data Credits (DCs) are central to the Helium Blockchain and LongFi. Read about

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Data Credits (DCs) are central to the Helium Blockchain and Network. Read about
```

how they fit into our Tokenomics
[here](/blockchain/helium-token#data-credits-and-burn-and-mint-economics).

> 

Reviewer: :::info 

You can use the [Helium Data Credit Calculator](https://www.helium.com/use) to understand exactly how much it will cost to send device data on the Network.

:::

Not only are DCs critical for asserting new Hotspots and their location on the
blockchain, registering OUIs and devices, but they are also used to pay for

> every single uplink LongFi packet that is sent on the Helium network including

Reviewer: ```suggestion
every single uplink packet that is sent on the Helium network including
```

inital Joins. Downlinks, and ACKS do not require Data Credits.

Every 24 bytes sent in an uplink or downlink packet cost 1 DC = $.00001.

Unlike traditional wireless networks, the Helium Network has no annual fee and
you only pay for data you use. This transaction occurs between the Miner (which

> runs on every Helium Hotspot) and the LongFi Network Server, identified by the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
runs on every Helium Hotspot) and the Helium LoRaWAN Network Server, identified by the
```

OUI, of the device owner.

The transaction is as follows:

- A Miner receives a packet and determines who it belongs to

> - The Miner dials the appropriate LongFi Network Server and offers the packet

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The Miner dials the appropriate Helium LoRaWAN Network Server and offers the packet
```

> - The LongFi Network Server expresses interest in the packet and accepts

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The Helium LoRaWAN Network Server expresses interest in the packet and accepts
```

  delivery
- The Miner provides the packet under the promise that the LongFi Network Server
  will “burn a DC” in the name of the Miner

> You may have noticed that the final step includes a promise from the LongFi

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You may have noticed that the final step includes a promise from the Helium LoRaWAN
```

Network Server. The principle at work here is that each packet in its own is
quite insignificant in value and so the Miner is willing to extend this service
of delivery in exchange for the promise; by doing such, usage experience low

> latencies. Should the LongFi Network Server fail to fulfill its promise, the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
latencies. Should the Helium LoRaWAN Network Server fail to fulfill its promise, the
```

> Miner would place the LongFi Network Server on a deny list and would no longer

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Miner would place the Helium LoRaWAN Network Server on a deny list and would no longer
```

> route packets from any devices from this LongFi Network Server.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
route packets from any devices from this Helium LoRaWAN Network Server.
```
